We're watching President Biden
as he approaches
the podium at the White House.
Good afternoon. Listen to his remarks.
You know, there are moments in this life
I I mean this
literally when the pure,
unadulterated evil is unleashed
on this world.
The people of Israel
live through one
such moment this weekend.
Bloody hands of the terrorist
organization, Hamas
group, whose stated purpose for being
is to kill Jews
This was an act of sheer evil.
More than 1000 civilians slaughtered,
not just kill, slaughtered in Israel.
Among them, at least 14
American citizens killed,
parents butchered,
using their bodies
to try to protect their children.
Stomach churning
reports of babies being killed.
Entire families slain.
Young people massacred
while attending a musical festival.
To celebrate peace. To celebrate peace.
Women raped,
assaulted, paraded as trophies.
Families
hid their fear for hours and hours,
desperately trying
to keep their children quiet.
To avoid drawing attention
And thousands of wounded.
Alive.
But carrying with them
the bullet holes and the shrapnel wounds.
And the memory of what they endured.
You all know these traumas never go away.
There's still so many families
desperately waiting
to hear the fate of their loved ones.
Not knowing if they're alive.
Or dead. Or hostages.
Infants in their mother's arms.
Grandparents in wheelchairs.
Holocaust survivors abducted
and held hostage.
Hostages whom
Hamas has now threatened execute
in violation
of every code of human morality.
It's abhorrent.
The brutality of Hamas
is blood thirsty and is brings to mind
the worst the worst rampages of vices.
This is terrorism.
But sadly for the Jewish people,
it's not new.
This attack is brought to the surface.
Painful memories.
The scars left
by a millennium, antisemitism
and genocide.
The Jewish people
So in this moment,
we must be crystal clear.
We stand with Israel.
And we will make sure,
as has what it needs
to take care of its citizens,
defend itself and respond to this attack.
There's no justification for terrorism.
There's no excuse
Hamas does not stand for the Palestinian
people's right
to dignity and self-determination.
Stated purpose is annihilation
of the state of Israel.
On the murder of Jewish people
They use Palestinian civilians
as human shields.
Mass offers
nothing but terror
and bloodshed with no regard
to who pays the price
The loss of
innocent life is heartbreaking.
Like every nation in the world.
Israel has the right to respond and deed
has a duty to respond
to these vicious attacks.
I just got off the phone with the third
called Prime Minister Netanyahu.
I told him
the United States
experience is an experience
in our response to be swift,
decisive and overwhelming.
We also discussed how democracies
like Israel
and United States are stronger
and more secure
when we act according to the rule of law.
Terrorist
purposely target civilians kill them.
We uphold the laws of war, law of war.
It matters.
There's a difference
Today, Americans across the country
are praying
for all those families
who have been ripped apart.
A lot of us know how it feels.
It leaves a black hole in your chest
when you lose family
feeling like you're being sucked in.
The anger the pain
the sense of hopelessness
This is what they mean
by a human tragedy,
an atrocity
on an appalling scale.
We're going to continue to stand united,
supporting the people of Israel
who are suffering unspeakable losses
and opposing the hatred
and violence of terrorism.
My team has been
in near-constant communication
with our Israeli partners
and partners all across the region
and the world.
From the moment this crisis began.
We're charging
additional military assistance,
including ammunition
and interceptors to replenish Iron Dome.
We're going to make sure
that Israel
does not run out of these critical assets
to defend its cities and its citizens.
My administration
has consult
closely with Congress
throughout this crisis.
When Congress returns,
we're going to ask them
to take urgent action
to fund the
national security
requirements of our critical partners.
This is not about party or politics.
This is about the security of our world,
security of the United States of America.
We now know
that American citizens are among
those being held by Hamas
I've directed my team
to share intelligence and deploy
additional expertize from across
the United States government
to consult with
and advise Israeli counterparts
in hostage recovery recovery efforts.
Because as president,
I have no higher priority
than the safety of Americans
being held hostage around the world.
The United States has also enhanced
our military force posture in the region
to strengthen our deterrence.
The Department of Defense has moved
the USS Gerald Ford carrier strike group,
the Eastern Mediterranean,
and bolstered our fighter
aircraft presence.
And we stand ready to move in
additional assets as needed
Let me say again
to any country, any organization,
anyone
thinking of taking advantage of
the situation,
I have one word don't
don't
Hearts
may be broken, but our resolve is clear.
Yesterday, I also spoke with the leaders
of France, Germany, Italy and U.K.
to discuss the latest developments
with our European allies
and coordinate our united response
This comes on top of days
of steady
engagement with partners
across the region.
We're also taking steps at home
in cities
across the United States of America.
Police departments have stepped up
security around centers of Jewish life
The Department of Homeland Security,
the Federal Bureau of Investigation
are working closely
with state
and local law enforcement
and Jewish
community partners
to identify and disrupt
any domestic threat
that could emerge in connection
with these horrific attacks.
This is
a moment for the
United States to come together
to grieve with those who are mourning
Let's be real clear.
There is no place for hate in America,
not against Jews, not against Muslims.
Not against anybody.
We reject.
What we reject is terrorism.
We condemn the indiscriminate
evil just we have always done.
That's what America stands for.
You know, just over 50 years ago,
I was thinking about this morning
talk from
the secretary of state,
the vice president in my office
over 50 years ago.
As a young senator,
I visited Israel for the first time
as a newly elected senator,
and I had a long, long trip
meeting with Goldman in her office
just before the Yom Kippur War.
I guess you could see
the consternation on my
face as she described
what was being faced.
She knew they were facing
walked outside
in that
sort of hallway outside her office
to have some photo.
She looked at me all of a sudden, said,
Would you like to have a photograph?
And so I got up and followed her out
here, standing there silent,
looking at the press.
You could tell, I guess I was concerned.
She leaned over and whispered to me.
She said, Don't worry, Senator Biden,
we have a secret weapon here in Israel.
My word is what she said.
We have no place else to go.
For 75 years
is also the only guarantor
security of Jewish people
around the world.
So the
atrocities of
the past could never happen again.
Let there be no doubt
the United States has Israel's back.
We will make sure the Jewish
democratic state of Israel
can defend itself
today, tomorrow, as we always have to.
Simple as that.
These atrocities
sickening
We're with Israel
Just make no mistake.
Thank you.
Mr.
President, what was your reaction
on the ground?